# Frontend Handlers

The main functionality of the Concertim-Openstack-Service Front-End Handlers are to take the data from the `view.pickle` file that is generated by the [view handlers](./view.md) and update the concertim Front-End with the changes. This entails both object component changes as well as updating metrics for the individual objects.

## Updates Handler

The Frontend Updates Handler is responsible for calcuation and managing updating the Concertim Front-End with object component based changes. New objects, deleted objects, new statuses, etc.

## Metrics Handler

The Frontend Metrics Handler is responsible for calculating the metrics for mapped objects in the `view.pickle` file and sending the metrics to Concertim's Metric Reporting Daemon service.

## Installation

The Frontend handlers require the `/etc/concertim-openstack-service/config.yaml` to be available and properly configured.

The recommended method for deploying the Update Components are by using the Dockerfile for the corresponding service.

- [Frontend Updates Dockerfile](../Dockerfiles/Dockerfile.fe_updates)
- [Frontend Metrics Dockerfile](../Dockerfiles/Dockerfile.fe_metrics)

Example Docker commands can be found in the [example docker commands file](../Dockerfiles/docker_commands_ex.txt)

Both the `fe_metrics` and `fe_updates` process require the `view.pickle` file generated by the [view handlers](./view.md) to be present and readable.

## Configuration

The Frontend Handlers make use of the Concertim Client APIs, as such the Concertim Host must be reachable. They also make use of the base Cloud Component APIs. All of these should be configured and available in the Cloud environment that the Frontend Handlers are running on.

Please see [the example config.yaml](../etc/config-sample.yaml) for how values are configured.

## Usage

The Frontend Handlers are intended to function as a daemon process that continuously update Concertim and the Cloud. As such, once the docker containers are completely configured and running the services should act on their own.